add an how to reach out to people / email ettiquete section to collaboration book (#4636)
the-turing-way/the-turing-way: book/website/collaboration/email-etiquette.md

(cl-email-etiquette)=
# Email Etiquette

If you need any help or information from other people (such as colleagues, collaborators, support staff) it is important to be mindful of and respectful towards their time. 
The considerations outlined here will help make the process smooth and efficient for everyone involved.

# Before reaching out 

Before asking anyone for help, it is important to keep these three questions in mind: 
1. Is the information already available somewhere?
2. Is this person responsible for this information and/or tasks?
3. If the person is unavailable, what are other ways to solve this? 

(cl-email-etiquette-reaching-out)=
# Reaching out 

If you still need to contact an individual for help or information, you will sooner receive a reply if you anticipate the questions that this individual may have for you. 

> Acknowledge in your ask that the individual may not be the right person to address the question to or may not have the time and/or energy to help you right now. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you still need to contact an individual for help or information, you will sooner receive a reply if you anticipate the questions that this individual may have for you. 
Acknowledge in your message that the individual may not be the right person to address the question to or may not have the time and/or energy to help you right now. 
```

Make it clear why you are asking this individual something, and what exactly it is you are asking of them.
Provide context and be specific, but keep your message as concise as possible.

Try to provide an estimate of the amount of time the request may take, or try to be specific about the tasks and role division so that the individual can determine the time involved themselves. 

> If there are any deadlines involved, communicate these clearly. In general it is good practice to plan things out well in advance when you need input from other people.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make it clear why you are asking this individual something, and what exactly it is you are asking of them.
Provide context and be specific, but keep your message as concise as possible.

Try to provide an estimate of how long the request will take.
Be specific about the tasks and how they will be divided  so that the individual can make their own assessment. 
If there are any deadlines involved, communicate these clearly.
In general it is good practice to plan things out well in advance when you need input from other people.
```

(cl-email-etiquette-scheduling)=

> # Scheduling a meeting

Reviewer: Do we already have guidance on scheduling meetings?

Author: I think we only have guidance on how to arrange a meeting once you scheduled one, so it is not duplication/the tone of this page is a bit different. 

I linked to that page now at the end!

Before trying to schedule a meeting, consider whether you can achieve your goal via an email exchange. 

If a meeting is necessary and you want to schedule this, indicate some possible dates or ask if they prefer a different way of planning a meeting.

> Sometimes people use tools like Calendly that will allow you to check their calendar for their availability.

Reviewer: Do we want a link to Calendly here?
Is there a more generic name for these tools?

Don’t offload the scheduling responsibilities to the other person.
Don’t expect the person to be available on short notice, ask them on time!

When scheduling a meeting with a calendar planner, don’t open up 100 possibilities and close this planner within a week so people don’t have to keep multiple timeblocks blocked for your meeting.
Especially if you are scheduling a meeting with multiple people, enforce your response deadline with a short reminder.
If people haven’t responded, pick a date that works for the people that did fill out the planner. 

# Request accepted, now what?

Always communicate clearly what the next expected steps are. 
Take responsibility for your end of the process and deliver on time.

It may be useful to send reminders or check in with the person about the status of your request while you wait. 
However, wait at least a week before doing this and do not send a ton of reminders. 
Unless of course something is very urgent (but is it really?).

If a person follows through with your request for help, send them a thank you email. 

(cl-email-etiquette-resources)=
# Resources

> - https://eiratansey.com/2025/03/04/how-to-ask-a-busy-person-for-something/ (including example messages)

Reviewer: Can we tidy this url by making it a link?
